Now that we have set up a functional structure,
we now what to layout our roles and responsibilities to
provide more clarity to the team.
Let's explore this in this section.
Roles and responsibilities.
So now that you have a draft structure of your group or team,
now you want to layout the roles and responsibilities
within the context of your structure.
A role is a description of what someone generally does in your team,
someone may wear many hats and do a variety of things,
so try and make the roles what they generally do in the course of the day.
And for example, database administrator,
a responsibility is a duty or collection of duties that a
person does in the course of doing one's job.
And again an example, the role is database administrator,
but one of the duties would be doing database backups.
I'll have more examples later.
It is imperative that you define all of the roles and responsibilities
that are required to fulfill your mission as manager.
Let's look at some examples.
Roles do not equal people.
Remember a role is a function or part played by a person in your team.
Now that does not equal a person named John Smith.
A role may be fulfilled by a part or whole person or several people.
And also a person may perform one or more roles.
It is quite common for many people to associate a role with a single
person and a single person with a single role.
We want to be very flexible.
We may have several roles that are required to get our job done,
and we may have several people that will have one or more
role capabilities in each of those people.
And you can then map those people skills and capabilities to the roles required.
So it's a much more flexible approach and a cleaner way of thinking of things.
Sometimes people will say, oh I need a new database administrator,
oh I need another head count.
No, maybe I train someone and they do database administration part time.
I still need the role, I may not need a full person.
On the other hand, I may have so much database administration work,
I may need three people to fulfill that single role.
I think that's important to point out because you're going to have a
small team and probably more roles than people.
Here are some examples of roles,
some very common ones that I'm sure you have seen.
Business analyst, senior software engineer,
database administrator, very common ones.
Business analyst do an analysis and design,
senior software engineer likely writing software,
writing code, and database administrator,
administering your databases.
A few more, customer manager, product manager, and service manager.
Maybe those are roles that you may not have expected in your new team possibly.
Notice the first three are looking more inward,
in other words, they're all about you and your team,
they make sense to you and the work your team does,
but may make no sense at all to your customer.
The next three are a little more customer focused.
They're more outward looking.
These roles would be more recognizable by your customers.
For example, I'm the product manager for the sales support application CRM,
that title may resonate more with the customer.
So for those people in your team that may spend more
time literally with the customer,
I might suggest role names such as customer manager or service manager.
Those that may have less interface with your customers and your users,
maybe they have the roles of business analyst,
senior software engineer, database administrator.
Now I've defined roles are not equal people,
so many times I have dual roles for the people in my organization.
I have principle software engineer, for example,
a very senior lead, technical expert engineer,
and at the same time I have him as project manager or customer account manager,
based on the roles they're playing.
So I like to have the roles fully defined and I may
assign multiple roles as is typically, in my case,
to a single person.
Here are some samples of duties your team members may do,
and in particular for the role senior software engineer.
Analyze business problems, develop in both VB and C# fluently,
design relational databases, provide technical leadership,
perform business analysis, create and implement test plans,
perform unit and integrated testing, meet or exceed estimates and schedules.
Now this is just a short list, yours may be longer.
I like a little more granularity and clarity to help
people know what is expected of them.
Now don't forget, you must keep this list up-to-date and evolve with the times.
Now here's quote.
"Divide responsibility and nobody is responsible.
" This is a very good and insightful quote by Mr.
W.
Deming, a renowned business management guru.
This is not to mean teamwork is bad, quite the contrary.
This means always put someone in charge and responsible for things
and then build your team around that person.
For example, you and only you are responsible for your new team of five.
What I mean by that is your customers and your manager are looking to you,
and if you don't agree with me, think of it this way,
if something does not get done or not performed to
the level expected by the customer, would you blame a team member? I wouldn't.